The size and frequency of natural disasters is increasing requiring that the methods to ameliorate the damage they cause increase in tandem. Nearly all disturbed land requires the application of plant seed to regain it's economic, cultural, and environmental potential. Unfortunately, the severity of recent disturbances decimates the naturally available seed thus requiring human intervention to apply seed. However, the quantity and variety of seed required to meet the demands of future natural disasters is unknown. Using a combination of data from expert restoration practicioner surveys, geospatial analyses, and statistics we propose to forecast the size of the US native seed market to ensure that an adequate supply of seed will exist to maintain healthy landscapes. 

Collecting adequate amounts of wildland seed to use in agricultural increase is a challenging process. Despite attempts to widely commercialize hundreds of plant species and ecotypes over the last decade few have been introduced to agricultural production. In part this is due to the relatively small size of native seed collections, and the amount of farm space which can be planted with them. However, there are many ways to increase the volume of wildland collected seed. The most pragmatic may be by increasing the general efficiency of collection crews, and ensuring they can collect seed from a population across the entire period which it is dispersing fruit. The efficiency of crews may be improved by supplying them appropriate geospatial products (maps) developed via machine learning methods which correlate environmental variables to known plant occurrences, and population sizes, and then predict these values to unsampled locations. In a similar vein statistical 'maps' which are able to predict the timing of flowering and fruiting allow crews to more accurately estimate population size (as plants are more 'visible' when in flower), and maximize the number of seeds which they can sustainably harvest from a site as their fruits reach maturity and disperse. 

See about calling 'geospatial products' -> 'statistical maps' (which is a made up and meaningless concoction of words, but may be good?). 


